# Trends 

## Casadevall2018

- Interesting that compromised immune systems are cited as the main issue leading to the current/future rise in fungal infections 
- Current burden apparently several million cases worldwide. 
- "Currently there are no vaccines or immune therapies for fungal diseases, but many are in development" 
- There's a RAT for cryptococcal meningitis! 

For virulence - it's interesting to note that the reproduction rate of fungal pathogens is slow (relative to viruses/bacteria), but their mutational rate can in theory be much higher (I think?) due to the capacity for sexual reproduction. Are there other biological factors that allow fungi to accrue genetic diversity quickly? How does this affect pathogenesis and phylodynamics? 

From the [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mating_in_fungi#:~:text=The%20tetrapolar%20type%20of%20mating,of%20which%20can%20be%20multiallelic.): 


"It is believed that multi-allelic systems favor outcrossing in Basidiomycota. For example, in the case of U. maydis, which bears more than 25 b but only 2 a mating types, an individual has an approximately 50% chance to encounter a compatible mate in nature.[23] However, species such as C. cinerea, which has more than 240 A and B mating types, each, and S. commune, which has more than 339 A mating types and 64 B mating types, approach close to 100% chance of encountering a compatible partner in nature, due to the huge number of mating types generated by these systems.[24]"

This is wild... what are the population genomic dynamics of pathogens that can reproduce asexually but also have multiple sexes at different frequencies that can, at times, sexually reproduce???

Seems worth studying the C. gattii outbreak in Vancouver (and elsewhere); this one can affect otherwise healthy people and seems especially virulent. How does it spread? What's the reproduction number? What is its epidemiology like? Can we infer anything from the cases we've observed? 






